Now as I mentioned, clearing everything is one solution,
sometimes you might have an approach where you simply want to have your own logic to delete single items
from the database.
Now that logic might be whatever you need but for that, you probably want to delete the single items,
so I'll show you how that works too.
So in the utility.js file, I'll create a new function which I'll name deleteItemFromData
and of course you can choose any name you want as always.
Now here we definitely need two arguments, the store which we want to access but then the ID of the
element which we want to delete of course because it's all about deleting a single element here.
So here, I now again use return dbPromise and call then and in there, we get as always access to the
database,
so far that's nothing new.
Now in that database here, I first of all create a transaction as before with DB transaction,
so you know that code and transaction requires the store which we get as an argument in this function
and then which kind of transaction it is
and it still is a readwrite transaction here because we plan on deleting something which is a write
access basically, we're writing something to the database
even though we're deleting but it's basically changing the database.
So next, we get access to a store with tx object store and we pass the store we want to access and
then we can conveniently call store delete ID. By the way, getting a single item is basically the same,
there you have store get ID and you can directly return that, the get function just like with get all
because a read request never needs to wait for the transaction to succeed
basically. Deleting it though is a different story, here of course
we return tx complete to make sure that we keep database integrity and then I feel free
to chain another then block here where I basically have a function where I console log item deleted.
Now therefore, I don't need to return the promise because I'm handling it here.
I didn't have it handled before in the other files by the way but I wanted to return it to have at least the
option of doing so.
So this is the code which allows us to delete a single object, later in the course, we'll need this again,
for now
I just want to demonstrate how it works.
So back in the sw.js file, I will go into my code where I clear all the data.
Now clearing all the data is of course nice,
I also want to do something else now,
I basically want to delete the data immediately after it was written.
So for testing only, I'll briefly chain a then call here, call delete item from data thereafter on posts,
pass the key which will be my ID and this should delete an item instantly after it was written,
so now basically our cache shouldn't get populated.
This of course is no code that makes sense,
it's just there to test the delete item from data method.
So for that, let's go back and clear the storage to start from scratch, reload the application, reload
one more time to also initialize our cache here
and now let's have a look at indexedDB, we should see that posts is empty and it is
and now if I reload this again and again and I close the developer tools to make sure I don't have a buggy
display here on indexedDB, so let me refresh this, close this again,
open it,
have a look at posts,
it's still empty.
This is the expected behavior because we're deleting everything instantly.
Again, doesn't make much sense,
I'll remove it in a second
but for demo purposes
delete item from data works.
You could of course implement your own logic to decide which item needs to be deleted when, later in
the course as mentioned, we'll also use this method in a place where it makes more sense.
So for now, I'll remove this code here because it doesn't make any sense.